Update companion-node-types.md (#581)
ipfs/ipfs-docs: docs/how-to/companion-node-types.md

# Understand node types in IPFS Companion

> IPFS Companion's preferences screen allows you to choose from several different node types. The full list of available types you'll see in your Companion preferences depends on the browser you're using (i.e. Firefox, Chrome, Brave), but the full list is as follows:

Author: Agree that this is the right approach for a list of four things, but this will expand over time - @lidel's use of [toc] will keep this automatically updated 😊

> [[toc]]

Author: This is actually calling the _internal_ TOC from the bottom of the MD file. Stupid Markdown Tricks 😊

![Screenshot of node type switch](./images/node-type-switch.png)

**More information on each node type is below, but when in doubt, choose the _External_ node type and run an IPFS node on your local machine.** Some options for doing so:

- Use the [IPFS Desktop](https://github.com/ipfs-shipyard/ipfs-desktop) app (for Windows/Linux/Mac), which installs and manages a local IPFS node for you as well as offering an easy, convenient user interface for managing files, peers, and more
- If you prefer a more hands-on approach:
  - Install IPFS by following the [command line quick-start guide](command-line-quick-start.md)
  - Or run it in [Docker](https://github.com/ipfs/go-ipfs#running-ipfs-inside-docker)

Or, if [Brave](https://brave.com/) is your browser of choice, you can use the easiest of all these options: Just enable [Brave's own built-in IPFS node](#provided-by-brave).

## External

An _external_ node can be any instance of an IPFS daemon that:

- Runs outside of your web browser
- Exposes a _gateway_ and writeable _API_ over HTTP at TCP ports

> At this time, the [go-ipfs](https://github.com/ipfs/go-ipfs) implementation of IPFS is the recommended choice of daemon for running an external node. It is easier on CPU than other implementations, and provides `dhtclient` mode, which decreases ambient bandwidth use and reduces battery drain (key qualities for something that is expected to run in the background all the time).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [go-ipfs](https://github.com/ipfs/go-ipfs) implementation of IPFS is the recommended choice for running an external IPFS node. It's less power-hungry than other implementations and uses the `dhtclient` mode to decrease ambient bandwidth use and reduce battery drain.
```

A good practice is to run your go-ipfs daemon on localhost (`127.0.0.1`), as it provides:

> - Increased security (native IPFS used as end-to-end transport)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Increased security: native IPFS used as end-to-end transport.
```

GitHub isn't letting me edit these three lines in one. Boooo.

> - Better UX in the browser (no mixed-content warnings)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Better UX in the browser: no mixed-content warnings.
```

GitHub isn't letting me edit these three lines in one. Boooo.

> - Improved performance (local loopback is used, so no network overhead)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Improved performance: local loopback is used, so no network overhead.
```

GitHub isn't letting me edit these three lines in one. Boooo.

> As noted above, you can get started with running a go-ipfs node on your local machine in several ways:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can get started with running a go-ipfs node on your local machine in several ways:
```

> - Download [IPFS Desktop](https://github.com/ipfs-shipyard/ipfs-desktop), which installs and manages a local node for you as well as offering an easy, convenient user interface for managing files, peers, and more

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [IPFS Desktop](https://github.com/ipfs-shipyard/ipfs-desktop) installs and manages a local node for you, as well as offering an easy, convenient user interface for managing files and peers.
```

> - If you're comfortable with the command line and don't need the convenience of the IPFS Desktop UI, follow the directions in the [command line quick-start guide](command-line-quick-start.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If you're comfortable with the command line and don't need the convenience of the IPFS Desktop UI, follow the directions in the [command line quick-start guide](/how-to/command-line-quick-start/).
```

> - Docker fans can run and use go-ipfs from [inside a Docker container](https://github.com/ipfs/go-ipfs#running-ipfs-inside-docker)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Docker fans can run and use go-ipfs from [inside a Docker container](https://github.com/ipfs/go-ipfs#running-ipfs-inside-docker).
```

We shouldn't link to GitHub readmes if we can help it, but it looks like we don't have this content in docs right now. Issue #586 addresses this.

## Native

### Provided by Brave

Users of the [Brave](https://brave.com/) browser can enable native support for IPFS using a go-ipfs node built directly into the browser itself. This is a great way to experiment with IPFS without having to install or run IPFS Desktop or the command-line daemon.

This node type offers the same benefits as an [external](#external) node, with additional features provided within Brave itself:

- Native support for `ipfs://` and `ipns://` URIs:

>   - Built-in fallback to a public gateway
>   - Ability to change your preferred public gateway from Brave's settings page
>   - Options for default resolution of IPFS resources: through a public gateway, through a local node, or asking each time

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Built-in fallback to a public gateway.
  - Ability to change your preferred public gateway from Brave's settings page.
  - Options for default resolution of IPFS resources: through a public gateway, through a local node, or asking each time.
```

- The IPFS node is managed by Brave itself:

>   - Automatic go-ipfs updates and migrations
>   - Your node is only running when you're running your copy of Brave
>   - You can start/stop your Brave-based node by clicking the power button icon in IPFS Companion's main menu

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Automatic go-ipfs updates and migrations.
  - Your node is only running when Brave is open.
  - You can start/stop your Brave-based node by clicking the power button icon in IPFS Companion's main menu.
```

::: tip TOOLS FOR BRAVE USERS

- `ipfs://bafybeigdyrzt5sfp7udm7hu76uh7y26nf3efuylqabf3oclgtqy55fbzdi`
  Popular URI for triggering and testing native IPFS support
- `brave://settings/extensions`
  One-click Companion install and URI resolution settings
- `brave://ipfs`
  Status page for Brave's built-in go-ipfs node

:::

## Embedded

An _embedded_ node is a js-ipfs instance running in the browser in-memory, without the need for any external software.

::: warning

This node type is only for development and experimentation. Most users should use [external](#external) or [native](#native) node types instead.

:::

Power users can provide [custom config](https://github.com/ipfs/js-ipfs#faq) (e.g. to enable experimental pubsub) via the IPFS Companion [Preferences](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/157609/38084660-0b97c0cc-334e-11e8-9368-823345ced67f.png)

> **Note:** At present, embedded js-ipfs running within webextension (browser context) comes with some limitations:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are some limitation when running js-ipfs within a browser context:
```

> - Can't act as an HTTP gateway (extension uses public one as a fallback)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Companion cannot act as an HTTP gateway: the extension uses public one as a fallback.
```

> - Known to be CPU-hungry ([#450](https://github.com/ipfs-shipyard/ipfs-companion/issues/450), [ipfs/js-ipfs#1190](https://github.com/ipfs/js-ipfs/issues/1190)) over time, which may drain your battery

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The extension is CPU-hungry and may drain your battery. GitHub issues [ipfs-companion #450](https://github.com/ipfs-shipyard/ipfs-companion/issues/450) and [js-ipfs #1190](https://github.com/ipfs/js-ipfs/issues/1190) address this problem. 
```

- Missing DHT ([js-ipfs/#856](https://github.com/ipfs/js-ipfs/pull/856))
- Default transports limited to websockets ([js-ipfs/#1088](https://github.com/ipfs/js-ipfs/issues/1088))
  - Lack of connection closing ([ipfs/js-ipfs#962](https://github.com/ipfs/js-ipfs/issues/962))
  - Missing relay discovery ([js-ipfs/v0.29.x/examples/circuit-relaying](https://github.com/ipfs/js-ipfs/tree/v0.29.3/examples/circuit-relaying))
- An embedded node _does not run_ when external node is selected.; every time you switch back to the embedded node, a new instance is created on-demand, and it can take a few seconds for a brand new node to find peers

### Embedded + `chrome.sockets` (deprecated)

> This node type has been deprecated and is no longer supported by Chromium browsers. While this option still appears in IPFS Companion preferences, users of this node type are strongly urged to migrate to a different node type ASAP.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
::: warning
This node type has been deprecated and is no longer supported by Chromium browsers. While this option still appears in IPFS Companion preferences, users of this node type are strongly urged to migrate to a different node type.
:::
```

## Public

> A _public_ node is used as an implicit fallback for gateway functionality when an external node is offline or an embedded node is used. It does not expose the API port.
> 
> Because it's a fallback, it's not included as an option in Companion's preferences.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A _public_ node is used as a fallback for gateway functionality when an external node is offline or an embedded node is used. It does not expose the API port. This type of node is not included as an option in Companion's preferences.
```

**When in doubt, run go-ipfs as an external node instead.**

### Embedded + `chrome.sockets` (deprecated)

This node type has been deprecated and is no longer supported by Chromium browsers. While this option still appears in IPFS Companion preferences, users of this node type are strongly urged to migrate to a different node type ASAP.

## Native browser

Users of the [Brave](https://brave.com/) browser can enable native support for IPFS using a go-ipfs node built directly into the browser itself. This is a great way to experiment with IPFS without having to install or run IPFS Desktop or an IPFS daemon.

As with the embedded node type described above, Brave's native node is running in-memory in the browser itself, which means your node is only running when you're running your copy of Brave. However, Brave's native node offers some benefits over an embedded js-ipfs node, including:

- Ability to change your preferred public gateway from Brave's settings page

> - Options for default resolution of IPFS resources: via public gateway, via local node, or asking each time

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Options for default resolution of IPFS resources: through a public gateway, through a local node, or asking each time
```
